# Creative JavaScript Crash Course

This is a crash course in Creative JavaScript that you can go through in a single day. It's aimed at the interested beginner. It mainly focuses on the JavaScript canvas, and covers the basics of interacting with web pages with JavaScript, creating a canvas, drawing simple shapes and lines, setting up animation processes, grabbing mouse and keyboard events, using sprites, going fullscreen, simple blending, translation and rotation, mouse interaction and simple simulations, whilst also getting you more familar with the basics of variables, conditionals, loops and functions. 

The videos here introduce core principles, and talk you through the various projects one by one, but you should spend time with the projects themselves, and make sure to read the comments (text explanations). ALl the material is all up on mimicproject.com.

Once you are bored of these examples (which shouldn't take very long), you should search https://www.mimicproject.com for more interesting examples - there are hundreds and hundreds of tutorials with full explanations of how they work, written straight in to the code. These cover interesting topics like 3D graphics, audio processing and machine learning.

It might be useful to do this in groups as it can help to talk things over with a friend if you get stuck.

This cheatsheet is pretty handy too:

https://github.com/ual-cci/Creative-JavaScript-Crash-Course/blob/master/HTML5_Canvas_Cheat_Sheet.pdf

# Video Tutorials

# Video 1: Introduction Video
[![Intro Video](http://www.strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/js.png
)](http://www.strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/0-01_Intro.mp4 "Intro")
http://www.strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video1.html

# Video 2: Basic Building Blocks
http://strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video2.html

# Video 3: HTML5 101
http://strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video3.html

# Video 4: Basic Animation
http://strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video4.html

## Project: Creating a JavaScript Canvas
https://mimicproject.com/code/9ef19ff5-d582-4b95-50eb-ea21a63dfb64

# Video 5: Simple logic (=, ==)
http://strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video5.html
## Project: Drawing a line
https://mimicproject.com/code/b9b12af0-8811-44a3-5c5f-45221bfb7605

# Video 6: More shapes
http://strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video6.html
## Project: Drawing other shapes
https://mimicproject.com/code/927aba4e-5652-7617-8f6e-c18a51f32d3a

# Video 7: Mouse Interaction + Going fullscreen
http://strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video7.html

## Project: Mouse Interaction
https://mimicproject.com/code/3860fcaa-ab6c-5165-1178-8f1120c7bae7
## Project: Fullscreen Canvas
https://mimicproject.com/code/95bbe0cf-63dc-cc52-2397-3bb51d7e6251
## Project: Fullscreen with auto-resize
https://mimicproject.com/code/fd8c79da-a495-1315-54f2-2c6de390685b
## Extra Project: Basic Blending
https://mimicproject.com/code/126cdb47-499e-4d11-d7cb-2d51259d34d9

# Video 8: Loading an Image
http://strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video8.html
## Project: Loading an Image
https://mimicproject.com/code/41cf3f4a-ab7b-37ec-2055-d4cee9579651

# Video 9: Loading Lots of Images
http://strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video9.html
## Project: Load Multiple Images - you'll need an image sequence for this
https://mimicproject.com/code/e8b01937-d1de-9a71-df5d-9f55041a88c2
## Project: Sprite Animation - this one is tricky but worth doing!
https://mimicproject.com/code/a6da9d47-f6e1-f707-e729-ee8083115254

# Video 10: Rotate
http://strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video10.html
## Project: Rotate
https://mimicproject.com/code/b7818244-4435-d97e-65ec-d16efcf80f55

# Video 11: Keyboard Interaction
http://strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video11.html
## Project: Keyboard Interaction (Simple)
https://mimicproject.com/code/b8d3fd2e-e639-8548-ced9-7fef0be8983b

## Extra Project: Bouncing Ball.
https://mimicproject.com/code/3bd29c55-3d19-13f4-68bd-8da7ec2f1a26

# Video 12: End
http://strangeloop.co.uk/js-videos/video12.html
